Next up, we're going to take sets.
And sets are super easy in Python.
No need to overcomplicate them.
I have seen a lot of people
who complicate them.
These are known as set or
sets, whatever you want
to call them, no big deal.
Now the way how set works is first
you go through with the diagram.
So in case you have studied
them in, your engineering
or maths, that's okay.
If you haven't, let me give
you a small tour of that.
No worries, I'll be your
math teacher for a while.
So the word and the concept
of the set is mathematical.
And the way how it works is you have
some of the data just like here.
And we'll get this data into orange.
That's nice.
And we have another data which is
in another color, maybe yellow.
So the way how set works is when
you actually overlap these
two things, what you are getting
and how you are getting.
So we can see this whole thing is
divided into multiple portion.
But the interesting portion
is just right here.
This is where the interesting portion
is.
I'll just go ahead
and make it transparent.
So what we see that if this is
called as set A, this one is set
B means any amount of data.
So we can see this
here is a whole of A.
This thing is whole of B here.
But when we make an intersection,
this is point where we
actually mix, some portion
of A and some portion of B.
And yes, this is it.
So whatever is the common part here,
this is known as intersection.
Yeah, pretty unique
name, Intersection.
So this whole thing in between
is known as intersection.
Pretty easy.
When you want to combine
everything, that means you want
to have everything with you.
This whole thing, this whole
thing is known as union.
That means I want to have
everything which is in the A,
everything in the B, everything.
I doesn't really care.
But the only thing that I care
about, if there is something common
in both of them, don't repeat
it again, don't write it again.
Set is known as for their uniqueness.
So set is designed in such
a way that, hey,
everything should be unique.
So whenever you study about the set,
make sure one thing is there
in your mind, which is
everything is going to be unique.
Unique.
So set simply means
things are unique.
And again, union means I want
to have everything
of this, this is known as union.
But if you want to have just
portion of it, this portion of it.
Again, if there is anything common
between both of them in this part
as well, I will not take them.
But if anything is present
in the A, but Not in the B.
I will not take that
in the intersection.
So that is the most common.
We have some of the others as well.
Like you want to have difference.
That means, hey, give me the A.
But if anything is there
in the B also, don't give me that.
I think the better would be
to take an example.
Now that you understand
the theory, part of it.
Example would be super, super easy.
Moving on to the chapter number nine.
We are into chapter nine.
Py now.
What can we do?
So let's just say we have,
essential spices.
And the way how we write
the set is like this.
There are other ways as
well, but this is the most
easy way to write the set.
So we have, cardamom,
and we have ginger.
And another set that we
have is maybe cinnamon.
All right, we have another one.
This time we'll not call them
as essential spice,
but rather we'll call them as
optional spice, optional spice.
And we have to change them.
So instead of cardamom, let's have
cloves, and we'll keep the ginger.
But we're going
to change the cinnamon.
So ginger is the common part.
Again, the order doesn't matter.
It can be at any position.
That really doesn't matter.
So we'll have the black pepper.
All right.
Yes.
Being from India, I
know a lot of spices.
Now, let's just say I want
to have an all spices box.
And in the all spices box, I want
to have all of them, but there's no
point of having duplicate of them.
So for this, I can have a union.
And union combines unique spices.
So for this, all I have to do
is take the essential spices,
use this sign, which is just
below your backspace key.
This is a pipe operator,
also known as union.
And then I can go ahead
and have the optional spices.
And you get the idea the all
spices is just like that.
Should we print it out?
Probably yes.
All spices.
And we'll have all spices.
Open this up and let's
run the chapter nine.
And there we go.
We have the ginger, clove, cardamom,
black pepper, and cinnamon.
But there is no presence
of the ginger twice.
That's the whole goal.
That's the union.
You get all of them, but you
don't get the reputation.
It's a very unique property of this
and used actually quite a lot.
We can actually go ahead and find,
what are the common one of them.
So we can just go ahead
and write like this.
So I want to find the common spices.
What are the common
between both of them?
For This, I have to say
essential spice.
And we want to have
an intersection of it.
Remember, the intersection
is this portion.
So we want to have an intersection.
And this is how you write.
No, I wish it would be in
for intersection, but it
is actually ampersand.
So.
So we have the optional spices.
And the interesting part
is, what do we get in here?
So first of all, this is going
to be common spices.
And then instead of the all spices,
we'll have the common spices.
Let's run this.
This would be fun to see.
So in the common spices, we
can see the only ingredient
which is common is ginger.
Between both of them, if there
would be no common ingredient,
we would get nothing.
That's it.
One last thing that's remaining
up here is the differences.
So let's try to leave that.
Let's also learn about that.
We are going to call this one
as only in, not like that.
Only in essential.
So how do we do that?
I want to find the spices
which are only in the essential,
not in the optional.
So easy part.
I can take the essential spices
and I can remove all the optional.
There we go.
And then we can just go
ahead and print it.
So instead of common spices, we'll
just go for only in essential.
And we will say only
in essential spices.
Pretty easy.
I hope this demo gives you
an idea about how it works.
Only in essentials,
are cinnamon and cardamom, because
ginger is common for both
of them, so it's being removed.
Pretty fun.
Pretty easy.
There is also a final thing
in the world of set, which is
known as again, membership test.
And yes, membership test
remains exactly same.
Whenever you want to check whether
this member exists in a particular
set or not, you ask questions
and you can simply ask them.
For example, I can just
have a simple print statement
and formatted string.
I will say is.
Then again clove.
Again, I have to be
case sensitive here.
Clove.
Or did I wrote it as cloves?
Yeah, I wrote it as cloves.
Is cloves in essential spices?
And then simply use the curly braces
and ask, what do you want to check?
I want to check for cloves.
Where do you want to check in?
And whatever the variable
that is essential spices.
That's it.
You put this up and there we go.
We run this and it says,
is clove in essential spices False
because it doesn't exist.
Probably I wrote it wrong.
Cloves.
We'll copy this.
Oh, it's actually not
in essential spices.
It is in optional spices.
So that's why I thought
little different so is
it an optional spices?
Let's just see.
Optional spices.
Okay let's see.
Yes true this is available in this.
Now there is one more thing known
available in this
so far you can actually do all
the manipulation and everything
in the set set by default is known
for uniqueness only.
We don't worry about too much
but if you want to freeze any
of the set there is
a concept known as frozen set.
It is available it has built
an immutable unordered collection
of unique elements.
It is also being used sometimes
but again no need
to worry too much about this.
Just remember there is a set there
is a frozen set both of them are
available the working wise they are
exactly same no problem there.
That's it and pretty
much it about the sets.
Hope you have enjoyed it and let's
catch up in the next video.
Hope you have reviewed us.